W-21918708-hyperforce-0526-duke (INDIA) (#467)
mulesoft/docs-monitoring: modules/ROOT/pages/alerts-hf.adoc

. Enable, disable, edit, or delete an alert from its image:more-menu-vert-ellipsis.png["",15,15] (*More* menu).

For alerts in other Anypoint Platform clouds, see xref:alerts-us-eu.adoc[].

//TODO POST GA: ADD LINK TO LIMITATIONS SECTION
//Limitations apply (see <<limits>>). 

//[calloutlist]
//TODO: POST GA ADD OVERVIEW IMAGE, CONVERT BULLETED LIST ITEMS (* ) BELOW TO NUMBERED LIST ITEMS (. )
//. Environment selector

== Before You Begin

Required prerequisites:

* Your organization must subscribe to a xref:index.adoc#billing[tier] in an Anypoint Platform cloud that supports this feature. 
* You must have the xref:am-permissions.adoc[permissions] required for viewing or managing Anypoint Monitoring. 

//TODO: VERIFY THESE TARGETS
* At least one Mule application or API must be deployed to a supported host:

** Mule application:
*** CloudHub 2.0
*** Runtime Fabric
//TODO: HYBRID? 
*** Hybrid 
** API managed by Mule Gateway or Omni Gateway
+
See xref:gateway-home::index.adoc[].

For information about deployment targets for Mule applications, see xref:hosting-home::index.adoc#runtime-plane-hosting-options[Runtime Plane Hosting Options].

[[find]]
== Find Alerts

> To find the list of alerts:

Reviewer: Maybe to find "your alerts", "configured alerts",  "your organization alerts".

There just isn't context on what alerts you're finding.

. Configure alert properties:
.. Provide a name for the alert.
.. Select the <<environment, environment>> in your organization for this alert. 
//TODO: IS "resource" the term we'll use; check on final name in UI. Was "entity" and "entity type"
.. Select the resource type and resource that the alert is for. Only active resources that can receive traffic are available.

* *Resource Type*: *API* or *Application*
* *Resource Name:* Name of the API or Mule application 
.. For an API alert, select an API version and up to ten response codes. 
.. Click *Next* to open *Set Alert Condition*. 
. In *Set Alert Condition*, configure the rule for triggering the alert:
.. Select the <<metrics, metric>> that the alert uses.
.. Select the <<severity, severity>> of the alert.
.. Provide a <<threshold, threshold>> for triggering the alert.
.. Click *Next* to open *Configure Notifications*. 
. In *Configure Notifications*, configure the message to send when the alert triggers.
+
To use variables in your email notification, see <<variables>>.

.. Provide a subject.
.. Provide the message.
.. Identify recipients. 

[[more-menu]]
== Enable, Disable, or Delete an Alert

> Alerts are enabled by default when they are created. You can disable, re-enable, or delete an alert.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can enable, disable, or delete an alert. Alerts are enabled by default when they are created.
```

. Enable, disable, or delete the alert.

[[status]]
== Alert Statuses

The *Alerts* page indicates whether an alert is currently triggering or in some other state.  

//TODO: Same as comm cloud or not?
include::partial$include-alert-state.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[[severity]]
== Alert Severities

//Note: This is different from comm cloud -- migration issue?
Use your organization's alerting criteria when setting an alert's severity. Available severity levels are:

* *Low*
* *Medium*
* *High*
* *Critical*

[[threshold]]
== Alert Thresholds

Alert threshold configurations indicate when the data collected on a <<metrics, metric>> triggers the alert. Configurations for alert thresholds follow this form:

//TODO: VERIFY THE Above/Below; verify variable replacement of "selected metric" with name of metric

[%header,cols="1a,1a"]
|===
| Configuration Pattern | Example 
| *Trigger alert when selected metric is _Above\|Below\|Above or equal to\|Below or equal to\|Equal to_ _Number_ for each of the last _Number_ consecutive minutes.*
| *Trigger alert when selected metric is _Above_ _4_ for each of the last _10_ consecutive minutes.*
|===

> The example configures an alert to trigger when the selected metric (such as *Message Count*) is *Above* 4 for 10 consecutive minutes. In other words, the count must exceed 4 for each minute of minutes 1-10. If the count exceeds 4 for 9 of 10 minutes, but not the tenth minute, the alert doesn't trigger, even if the count exceeds 4 at minute 11. Following the same criteria, if the count exceeds 4 for each minute of minutes 11-20, the alert triggers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example configures an alert to trigger when the selected metric (such as *Message Count*) is *Above* 4 for 10 consecutive minutes. If the count exceeds 4 for 9 of 10 minutes, but not the tenth minute, the alert doesn't trigger, and the time window restarts.
```
